[All Hosts] (runtimes) add overview of runtimes (#3586)
OfficeDev/office-js-docs-pr: docs/testing/runtimes.md

---
title: Runtimes in Office Add-ins
description: Learn about the JavaScript runtimes that are used by Office Add-ins.
ms.date: 08/10/2022
ms.localizationpriority: medium
---

# Runtimes in Office Add-ins

As an interpreted language, JavaScript must run in a JavaScript engine. As a single-threaded, synchronous language, JavaScript has no inherent capacity for asynchronous execution; but modern JavaScript engines can request asynchronous operations (including networking communication) from the host operating system and receive data from the OS in response. This kind of engine makes JavaScript *effectively* asynchronous. In this article, engines of this sort are called *runtimes*. [Node.js](https://nodejs.org) and modern browsers are examples of such runtimes. 

## Types of runtimes

There are two types of runtimes used by Office Add-ins:

> - **JavaScript-only runtime**: A JavaScript engine supplemented with support for [WebSockets](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/API/WebSockets_API), [CORS (Cross-Origin Resource Sharing)](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/HTTP/CORS), and [local storage](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/API/Window/localStorage). 

Reviewer: Should we say Full CORS to be specific since CORS could be Simple or Full, and the latter includes the former?

Reviewer 2: AFAIK, we have only implemented Simple CORS. Full CORS has been pending for years. Alex can correct me.

Reviewer 2: We should probably link to our own ReactNative docs, since we haven't implemented the complete Mozilla specs, AFAIK.

Author: > We should probably link to our own ReactNative docs, since we haven't implemented the complete Mozilla specs, AFAIK.

I think that would be confusing because we'd be linking to a framework that _does_ have a view. Also, we say later in the detailed section about the JS-only runtime that it is modified from the original RN.

Reviewer: > AFAIK, we have only implemented Simple CORS. Full CORS has been pending for years. Alex can correct me.

We used to support Simple CORS. Now, we support Full CORS. I just sent you an email about this.

- **Browser runtime**: Includes all the features of a JavaScript-only runtime and adds a [rendering engine](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Glossary/Rendering_engine) that renders HTML.

Details about these types are later in this article at [JavaScript-only runtime](#javascript-only-runtime) and [Browser runtime](#browser-runtime).

The following table shows which type of runtime is used for the various possible features of an add-in. Note the choice of which type of runtime to use is an implementation detail that Microsoft could change at any time. The Office JavaScript Library doesn't assume that the same type of runtime will always be used for a given feature and your add-in architecture shouldn't assume this either.

| Type of runtime | Add-in feature |
|:-----|:-----|

> | JavaScript-only | Excel [custom function](../excel/custom-functions-overview.md)</br>(except when the runtime is [shared](#shared-runtime))</br></br>[Outlook event-based (autolaunched) task](../outlook/autolaunch.md)|

Reviewer 2: We always use plural for Custom Functions.

Reviewer 2: In Excel Online, we always use browser, naturally.

| browser | [task pane](../design/task-pane-add-ins.md)</br></br>[dialog](../develop/dialog-api-in-office-add-ins.md)</br></br>[function command](../design/add-in-commands.md#types-of-add-in-commands)</br></br>Excel [custom function](../excel/custom-functions-overview.md)</br>(when the runtime is [shared](#shared-runtime))|

A dialog always runs in its own process. So does an Outlook event-based task, also called autolaunched task. By default, task panes, function commands, and Excel custom functions each run in their own runtime process. However, for some Office host applications, the add-in manifest can be configured so that any two, or all three, of these run in the same runtime. See [Shared runtime](#shared-runtime).

Depending on the host Office application and the features used in the add-in, there may be as many as six runtimes in an add-in, each running in its own process (but not necessarily running simultaneously). The following are examples.

> - A PowerPoint or Word add-in that that doesn't share any runtimes, and includes the following features, has three runtimes.

Reviewer: Repetition of 'that'

  - A task pane
  - A function command
  - A dialog (A dialog can be launched from either the task pane or the function command. It is not a good practice to have multiple dialogs open simultaneously, but if you had one opened from the task pane and the function command at the same time, this add-in would have four runtimes.)

> - An Excel add-in that doesn't share any runtimes, and includes the following features, has four runtimes.

Reviewer 2: I 'd say "... may have up to ...". We won't pre-create any runtime until it's needed.

    > [!NOTE]
    > Data in `Window.localStorage` persists between sessions of the add-in and is shared by add-ins with the same origin. Both of these characteristics are often undesirable for an add-in. You can ensure that each session of a given add-in starts fresh by calling the [Window.localStorage.clear](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/API/Storage/clear) method when the add-in starts. To allow some stored values to persist, but reinitialize other values, you can use [Window.localStorage.setItem](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/API/Storage/setItem) when the add-in starts for each item that should be reset to an initial value. You can also call [Window.localStorage.removeItem](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/API/Storage/removeItem) to delete an item entirely.

- To share data between an Excel custom function and any other runtime, use [OfficeRuntime.storage](/javascript/api/office-runtime/officeruntime.storage).

> - To share data between an Outlook event-based task and any other runtime, use [OfficeRuntime.storage](/javascript/api/office-runtime/officeruntime.storage).

Reviewer: OfficeRuntime.Storage works **only** for Event-Based Add-Ins in Outlook. To share data between Event-Based Add-Ins and other add-ins, such as taskpane, we recommend using the [SessionData API](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/javascript/api/outlook/office.sessiondata?view=outlook-js-preview).

    > [!NOTE]
    > The `OfficeRuntime.storage` methods cannot be called in a dialog, so this is not an option for sharing data between a dialog and another runtime. 

Other ways to share data include the following:

- Store shared data in an online database that is accessible to all the runtimes.

> - Store shared data in a cookie for the add-in's domain.

Reviewer: This won't work for JavaScript-only runtimes.

For more information, see [Persist add-in state and settings](../develop/persisting-add-in-state-and-settings.md) and [Manage state and settings for an Outlook add-in](../outlook/manage-state-and-settings-outlook.md).

## JavaScript-only runtime

> The JavaScript-only runtime that is used in Office add-ins is a modification of an open source runtime originally created for [React Native](https://reactnative.dev/). It contains a JavaScript engine supplemented with support for [WebSockets](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/API/WebSockets_API), [CORS (Cross-Origin Resource Sharing)](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/HTTP/CORS), and [local storage](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/API/Window/localStorage). It doesn't have a rendering engine. 

Reviewer: Same thing here. Should we say Full CORS?

> This type of runtime is used in Outlook event-based (autolaunch) tasks and in Excel custom functions *except* when the custom function is [sharing a runtime](#shared-runtime). 

Reviewer: Should we specify Windows here since the runtimes are different when running Office for Mac?

  - The user changes focus from the window where the event was triggered, such as a message compose window.

## Browser runtime

Office add-ins use a different browser type runtime depending on the platform in which Office is running (web, Mac, or Windows), and on the version and build of Windows and Office. For example, if the user is running Office on the web in a FireFox browser, then the Firefox runtime is used. If the user is running Office on Mac, then the Safari runtime is used. If the user is running Office on Windows, then either an Edge or Internet Explorer provides the runtime, depending on the version of Windows and Office. Details can be found in [Browsers used by Office Add-ins](../concepts/browsers-used-by-office-web-add-ins.md).

All of these runtimes include an HTML rendering engine and provide support for [WebSockets](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/API/WebSockets_API), [CORS (Cross-Origin Resource Sharing)](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/HTTP/CORS), and [local storage](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/API/Window/localStorage). 

A browser runtime lifespan varies depending on the feature that it implements.

> - When an add-in with a task pane is launched a browser runtime starts. It shuts down when the add-in is closed.

Reviewer 2: Comma between "launched" and "a browser".

> - When a dialog is opened, a browser runtime starts. It shuts down when the dialog is closed.

Reviewer 2: Unless the lifetime is set to "long". Madhav?

Reviewer 3: For Dialog we don't support SharedRuntime so the long runtime is not supported for Dialog.

> - When an add-in with a task pane is launched a browser runtime starts. It shuts down when the add-in is closed.

Reviewer 3: should we say It shuts down when the task pane is closed?

Author: Good catch. If the runtime isn't shared, it shuts down when the task pane is closed.

Author: fixed

> [!NOTE]
> When a runtime is being [shared](#shared-runtime), it is possible to close the task pane without shutting down the add-in. See [Show or hide the task pane of your Office Add-in](../develop/show-hide-add-in.md) for more information.

### Shared runtime

A "shared runtime" isn't a type of runtime. It refers to a [browser type runtime](#browser-runtime) that is being shared by features of the add-in that would otherwise each have their own runtime. Specifically, you have the option of configuring the add-in's task pane and function commands to share a runtime. In an Excel add-in, you also can configure a custom function to share the runtime of a task pane or function command or both. When you do this, the custom function is running in a browser type runtime, instead of a [JavaScript-only runtime](#javascript-only-runtime) as it otherwise would. See [Configure your add-in to use a shared runtime](../develop/configure-your-add-in-to-use-a-shared-runtime.md) for information about the benefits and limitations of sharing runtimes and instructions for configuring the add-in to use a shared runtime. 

> 

Reviewer 2: I would state the whole article very simply: the JS-only runtime uses less memory and is quicker to start, but it offers fewer features. (Alex can provide rough numbers.) If memory is not a concern, developers should use the browser-based runtime, which has the full set of features.

Author: done

> A "shared runtime" isn't a type of runtime. It refers to a [browser type runtime](#browser-runtime) that is being shared by features of the add-in that would otherwise each have their own runtime. Specifically, you have the option of configuring the add-in's task pane and function commands to share a runtime. In an Excel add-in, you also can configure a custom function to share the runtime of a task pane or function command or both. When you do this, the custom function is running in a browser type runtime, instead of a [JavaScript-only runtime](#javascript-only-runtime) as it otherwise would. See [Configure your add-in to use a shared runtime](../develop/configure-your-add-in-to-use-a-shared-runtime.md) for information about the benefits and limitations of sharing runtimes and instructions for configuring the add-in to use a shared runtime. 

Reviewer 3: I think we should also specify the property of the SharedRuntime that the runtime will be running in background for the duration of the document even if the add-in is closed.

Author: done

---

> title: Runtimes in Office Add-ins

Reviewer 4: Sounds good, that answers my question!

## Types of runtimes

There are two types of runtimes used by Office Add-ins:

- **JavaScript-only runtime**: A JavaScript engine supplemented with support for [WebSockets](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/API/WebSockets_API), [Full CORS (Cross-Origin Resource Sharing)](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/HTTP/CORS), and [local storage](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/API/Window/localStorage). 
- **Browser runtime**: Includes all the features of a JavaScript-only runtime and adds a [rendering engine](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Glossary/Rendering_engine) that renders HTML.

Details about these types are later in this article at [JavaScript-only runtime](#javascript-only-runtime) and [Browser runtime](#browser-runtime).

The following table shows which possible features of an add-in uses each type of runtime. 

> > [!NOTE]

Author: I think that would be going too far. Raising its importance would cause alarm and worry for the reader. If it were up to me, we wouldn't have this note at all because there really isn't anything that the developer **could** do that makes the kind of assumption that this note warns against. This note is only present to please an SME.

> > [!NOTE]

Reviewer 4: OK by me

> The choice of which type of runtime to use is an implementation detail that Microsoft could change at any time. The Office JavaScript Library doesn't assume that the same type of runtime will always be used for a given feature and your add-in architecture shouldn't assume this either.

| Type of runtime | Add-in feature |
|:-----|:-----|

> | JavaScript-only | Excel [custom functions](../excel/custom-functions-overview.md)</br>(except when the runtime is [shared](#shared-runtime) or the add-in is running in Office on the web)</br></br>[Outlook event-based (autolaunched) task](../outlook/autolaunch.md)</br>(except when the add-in is running in Outlook on Mac or Outlook on the web)|

Author: I don't think this change would be correct. I think a JS-only runtime is also used on iOS and Android.

> | JavaScript-only | Excel [custom functions](../excel/custom-functions-overview.md)</br>(except when the runtime is [shared](#shared-runtime) or the add-in is running in Office on the web)</br></br>[Outlook event-based (autolaunched) task](../outlook/autolaunch.md)</br>(except when the add-in is running in Outlook on Mac or Outlook on the web)|

Reviewer 5: I don't think the event-based activation feature is available on mobile

> | browser | [task pane](../design/task-pane-add-ins.md)</br></br>[dialog](../develop/dialog-api-in-office-add-ins.md)</br></br>[function command](../design/add-in-commands.md#types-of-add-in-commands)</br></br>Excel [custom functions](../excel/custom-functions-overview.md)</br>(when the runtime is [shared](#shared-runtime) or the add-in is running on Office on the web)</br></br>[Outlook event-based task](../outlook/autolaunch.md)</br>(when the add-in is running in Outlook on Mac or Outlook on the web)|

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
| browser | [task pane](../design/task-pane-add-ins.md)</br></br>[dialog](../develop/dialog-api-in-office-add-ins.md)</br></br>[function command](../design/add-in-commands.md#types-of-add-in-commands)</br></br>Excel [custom functions](../excel/custom-functions-overview.md)</br>(when the runtime is [shared](#shared-runtime) or the add-in is running in Office on the web)</br></br>[Outlook event-based task](../outlook/autolaunch.md)</br>(when the add-in is running in Outlook on Mac or Outlook on the web)|
```

When an add-in is running on a platform other than the web, the following principles apply: 

- A dialog runs in its own runtime process. 
- An Outlook event-based task, also called autolaunched task, runs in its own runtime process. 
- By default, task panes, function commands, and Excel custom functions each run in their own runtime process. However, for some Office host applications, the add-in manifest can be configured so that any two, or all three, of these run in the same runtime. See [Shared runtime](#shared-runtime).

> Depending on the host Office application and the features used in the add-in, there may be many runtimes in an add-in, each running in its own process (but not necessarily running simultaneously). The following are examples.

Author: ```suggestion
Depending on the host Office application and the features used in the add-in, there may be many runtimes in an add-in. Each usually will run in its own process but not necessarily simultaneously. The following are examples.
```

For Excel, PowerPoint, and Word add-ins, we recommend using a [Shared runtime](#shared-runtime) when any two or more features, except dialogs, need to share data. In Outlook, or scenarios where sharing a runtime isn't feasible, you need alternative methods. The parts of the add-in that are in separate runtime processes don't share global data automatically and are treated by the add-in's web application server as separate sessions, so [Window.sessionStorage](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/API/Window/sessionStorage) cannot be used to share data between them. *The following guidance assumes that you are not using a shared runtime.*

- Pass data between a dialog and its parent task pane, function command, or custom function by using the [Office.ui.messageParent](/javascript/api/office/office.ui#office-office-ui-messageparent-member(1)) and [Dialog.messageChild](/javascript/api/office/office.dialog#office-office-dialog-messagechild-member(1)) methods. 

    > [!NOTE]
    > The `OfficeRuntime.storage` methods cannot be called in a dialog, so this is not an option for sharing data between a dialog and another runtime. 

> - To share data between a task pane and a function command, store data in [Window.localStorage](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/API/Window/localStorage), which is shared across all runtimes that access the same specific [origin](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Glossary/Origin). *LocalStorage isn't accessible in a JavaScript-only runtime and, thus, it isn't available in Excel custom functions. It also can't be used to share data with an Outlook event-based tasks (since those tasks use a JavaScript-only runtime on some platforms).*

Reviewer 4: I suggest turning the italicized text to the Note alert, and then convert the following paragraph to normal text. Please verify the bullets and indentations.
```suggestion
- To share data between a task pane and a function command, store data in [Window.localStorage](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/API/Window/localStorage), which is shared across all runtimes that access the same specific [origin](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Glossary/Origin). 
> [!NOTE]
> LocalStorage isn't accessible in a JavaScript-only runtime and, thus, it isn't available in Excel custom functions. It also can't be used to share data with an Outlook event-based tasks (since those tasks use a JavaScript-only runtime on some platforms).
```

>     > [!NOTE]

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
```

Author: This has to be a note, not another set of bullets, because its content is not parallel with the content of the other bullets.

Reviewer 4: OK no prob

>     > Data in `Window.localStorage` persists between sessions of the add-in and is shared by add-ins with the same origin. Both of these characteristics are often undesirable for an add-in. You can ensure that each session of a given add-in starts fresh by calling the [Window.localStorage.clear](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/API/Storage/clear) method when the add-in starts. To allow some stored values to persist, but reinitialize other values, you can use [Window.localStorage.setItem](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/API/Storage/setItem) when the add-in starts for each item that should be reset to an initial value. You can also call [Window.localStorage.removeItem](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/API/Storage/removeItem) to delete an item entirely.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- Data in `Window.localStorage` persists between sessions of the add-in and is shared by add-ins with the same origin. Both of these characteristics are often undesirable for an add-in. 
- To ensure that each session of an add-in starts anew, call the [Window.localStorage.clear](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/API/Storage/clear) method when the add-in starts. 
- To allow some stored values to persist, but reinitialize other values, use [Window.localStorage.setItem](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/API/Storage/setItem) when the add-in starts for each item that should be reset to an initial value. 
- To delete an item entirely, call [Window.localStorage.removeItem](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/API/Storage/removeItem).
```

Author: ```suggestion
    > Data in `Window.localStorage` persists between sessions of the add-in and is shared by add-ins with the same origin. Both of these characteristics are often undesirable for an add-in. 
    >
    > - To ensure that each session of a given add-in starts fresh call the [Window.localStorage.clear](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/API/Storage/clear) method when the add-in starts. 
    > - To allow some stored values to persist, but reinitialize other values, use [Window.localStorage.setItem](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/API/Storage/setItem) when the add-in starts for each item that should be reset to an initial value. 
    > - To delete an item entirely, call [Window.localStorage.removeItem](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/API/Storage/removeItem).
```

    - When the value is `Mac`, use `Window.localStorage` as described earlier in this list.

Other ways to share data include the following:

- Store shared data in an online database that is accessible to all the runtimes.
- Store shared data in a cookie for the add-in's domain to share it between browser runtimes. JavaScript-only runtimes do not support cookies.

For more information, see [Persist add-in state and settings](../develop/persisting-add-in-state-and-settings.md) and [Manage state and settings for an Outlook add-in](../outlook/manage-state-and-settings-outlook.md).

## JavaScript-only runtime

The JavaScript-only runtime that is used in Office add-ins is a modification of an open source runtime originally created for [React Native](https://reactnative.dev/). It contains a JavaScript engine supplemented with support for [WebSockets](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/API/WebSockets_API), [Full CORS (Cross-Origin Resource Sharing)](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/HTTP/CORS), and [local storage](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/API/Window/localStorage). It doesn't have a rendering engine, and it doesn't support cookies.

> This type of runtime is used in Outlook event-based (autolaunch) tasks in Office on Windows (but not in Office on Mac) and in Excel custom functions *except* when the custom functions are [sharing a runtime](#shared-runtime). 

Author: I think it's more than just Windows.

All of these runtimes include an HTML rendering engine and provide support for [WebSockets](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/API/WebSockets_API), [Full CORS (Cross-Origin Resource Sharing)](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/HTTP/CORS), and [local storage](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/API/Window/localStorage), and cookies. 

A browser runtime lifespan varies depending on the feature that it implements and on whether it is being shared or not.

- When an add-in with a task pane is launched, a browser runtime starts, unless it is a shared runtime that is already running. If it is a shared runtime it shuts down when the document is closed. If it is an unshared runtime, it shuts down when the task pane is closed.
- When a dialog is opened, a browser runtime starts. It shuts down when the dialog is closed.

> - When a function command is executed (which happens when a user selects its button or menu item), a browser runtime starts, unless it is a shared runtime that is already running. If it is a shared runtime it shuts down when the document is closed. If it is an unshared runtime, it shuts down when the first of the following occurs:

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
- When a function command is executed (which happens when a user selects its button or menu item), a browser runtime starts, unless it's a shared runtime that is already running. If it's a shared runtime, it shuts down when the document is closed. If it's not a shared runtime, it shuts down when the first of the following occurs.
```

 
  - The function command calls the `completed` method of its event parameter.

>   - 5 minutes has elapsed since the triggering event. (If a dialog was opened in the function command and it is still open when the parent runtime times-out, the dialog runtime stays running until the dialog is closed.)

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
  - 5 minutes have elapsed since the triggering event. (If a dialog was opened in the function command and it's still open when the parent runtime times out, the dialog runtime stays running until the dialog is closed.)
```

> - When an Excel custom function is using a shared runtime, then a browser type runtime starts when the custom function calculates if the shared runtime has not already started for some other reason. It shuts down when the document is closed.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
- When an Excel custom function is using a shared runtime, then a browser-type runtime starts when the custom function calculates if the shared runtime has not already started for some other reason. It shuts down when the document is closed.
```

> [!NOTE]

> > When a runtime is being [shared](#shared-runtime), it is possible for your code to close the task pane without shutting down the add-in. See [Show or hide the task pane of your Office Add-in](../develop/show-hide-add-in.md) for more information.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
> When a runtime is being [shared](#shared-runtime), it's possible for your code to close the task pane without shutting down the add-in. See [Show or hide the task pane of your Office Add-in](../develop/show-hide-add-in.md) for more information.
```

A browser runtime has more features than a JavaScript-only runtime, but starts up slower and uses more memory.

### Shared runtime

> A "shared runtime" isn't a type of runtime. It refers to a [browser type runtime](#browser-runtime) that is being shared by features of the add-in that would otherwise each have their own runtime. Specifically, you have the option of configuring the add-in's task pane and function commands to share a runtime. In an Excel add-in, you also can configure custom functions to share the runtime of a task pane or function command or both. When you do this, the custom functions are running in a browser type runtime, instead of a [JavaScript-only runtime](#javascript-only-runtime) as it otherwise would. See [Configure your add-in to use a shared runtime](../develop/configure-your-add-in-to-use-a-shared-runtime.md) for information about the benefits and limitations of sharing runtimes and instructions for configuring the add-in to use a shared runtime. In brief, the JavaScript-only runtime uses less memory and starts up faster, but has fewer features.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
A "shared runtime" isn't a type of runtime. It refers to a [browser-type runtime](#browser-runtime) that's being shared by features of the add-in that would otherwise each have their own runtime. Specifically, you have the option of configuring the add-in's task pane and function commands to share a runtime. In an Excel add-in, you can also configure custom functions to share the runtime of a task pane or function command or both. When you do this, the custom functions are running in a browser-type runtime, instead of a [JavaScript-only runtime](#javascript-only-runtime) as it otherwise would. See [Configure your add-in to use a shared runtime](../develop/configure-your-add-in-to-use-a-shared-runtime.md) for information about the benefits and limitations of sharing runtimes and instructions for configuring the add-in to use a shared runtime. In brief, the JavaScript-only runtime uses less memory and starts up faster, but has fewer features.
```

| browser | [task pane](../design/task-pane-add-ins.md)</br></br>[dialog](../develop/dialog-api-in-office-add-ins.md)</br></br>[function command](../design/add-in-commands.md#types-of-add-in-commands)</br></br>Excel [custom functions](../excel/custom-functions-overview.md)</br>(when the runtime is [shared](#shared-runtime) or the add-in is running in Office on the web)</br></br>[Outlook event-based task](../outlook/autolaunch.md)</br>(when the add-in is running in Outlook on Mac or Outlook on the web)|

The following table shows the same information organized by which type of runtime is used for the various possible features of an add-in.

| Add-in feature | Type of runtime on Windows | Type of runtime on Mac | Type of runtime on the web |
|:-----|:-----|:-----|:-----|
|Excel custom functions | JavaScript-only</br>(but *browser* when the runtime is shared)|JavaScript-only</br>(but *browser* when the runtime is shared)| browser |
|Outlook event-based tasks | JavaScript-only | browser | browser |
|task pane | browser | browser | browser |
|dialog | browser | browser | browser |
|function command | browser | browser | browser |

> > [!NOTE]
> > In Office on the web, everything always runs in a browser type runtime. In fact, with one exception, everything in an add-in on the web runs in the *same* browser process: the browser process in which the user has opened Office on the web. The exception is when a dialog is opened with a call of [Office.ui.displayDialogAsync](/javascript/api/office/office.ui#office-office-ui-displaydialogasync-member(1)) and the [DialogOptions.displayInIFrame](/javascript/api/office/office.dialogoptions#office-office-dialogoptions-displayiniframe-member) option is *not* passed and set to `true`. When the option is not passed (so it has the default `false` value), the dialog opens in its own process. The same principle applies to the [OfficeRuntime.displayWebDialog](/javascript/api/office-runtime#office-runtime-officeruntime-displaywebdialog-function(1)) method and the [OfficeRuntime.DisplayWebDialogOptions.displayInIFrame](/javascript/api/office-runtime/officeruntime.displaywebdialogoptions#office-runtime-officeruntime-displaywebdialogoptions-displayiniframe-member) option.

Author: ```suggestion

In Office on the web, everything always runs in a browser type runtime. In fact, with one exception, everything in an add-in on the web runs in the *same* browser process: the browser process in which the user has opened Office on the web. The exception is when a dialog is opened with a call of [Office.ui.displayDialogAsync](/javascript/api/office/office.ui#office-office-ui-displaydialogasync-member(1)) and the [DialogOptions.displayInIFrame](/javascript/api/office/office.dialogoptions#office-office-dialogoptions-displayiniframe-member) option is *not* passed and set to `true`. When the option is not passed (so it has the default `false` value), the dialog opens in its own process. The same principle applies to the [OfficeRuntime.displayWebDialog](/javascript/api/office-runtime#office-runtime-officeruntime-displaywebdialog-function(1)) method and the [OfficeRuntime.DisplayWebDialogOptions.displayInIFrame](/javascript/api/office-runtime/officeruntime.displaywebdialogoptions#office-runtime-officeruntime-displaywebdialogoptions-displayiniframe-member) option.
```
